Hello and welcome back. In the previous lesson, we have already given Codex a new skill,
the ability to build EXE programs. So in this lesson, we are going to test it.
So let's open Codex now and let's start a new project, new chat. Now we are going to
create
a new folder to put all our projects for crackmes. So we go to C drive and over here,
we create a new folder, crackmes. You can say my crackmes or maybe we say
yeah, you can say my crackmes. Yes, so now we give this path to Codex. Use this
folder and then paste the folder there for this project and now we refer to the
AI skill this is right-click, copy this get a path copy as path with this skill
then build a simple CLI program called crackme1
will ask a user to input a serial number, and if the serial number is wrong, it
will print wrong key or wrong serial, and if it is correct, it will print congrats if you
are unsure of anything, ask me. Put the EXE that you built into the folder, then copy and
paste this folder again down here so this is a simple prompt just ask it to use this
folder ask it to read this skill, and then build a simple command-line interface program
called
crackme1 that will prompt a user to input a serial number, and if the serial number is
wrong
it will print wrong serial, and if it's correct, it will print congrats if you are unsure
of anything
ask me. Then put that EXE that you built into this folder so let's go ahead. So now it has
gone to
work that was very fast it has succeeded in building it, and now it's doing a quick
command
line test notice that its initial build failed to run because there were dependencies, and
now
it has learned to statically build the EXE with all the required libraries baked in
so let's check it out. Go to that my crackmes folder and run this. So we open a
command-line
terminal here, CMD, and we will run this crackme, crackme1.exe. Input serial number
Alright, wrong serial. Okay, so if you want to crack this you can use Codex to crack it if
you
want, but I don't think I'll do that I'll just ask it what is the correct serial? Alright,
so
the correct serial is this. So let's test it out. We just copy this and paste it here. Hit
enter. Congrats.
So it works. So you see how easy it is to build your own crackmes. This is only a very
simple one. If you really want to be complex you can ask it to make a very difficult
crackme
probably with encoding and encryption and whatever you can think of or obfuscation and so
on
Right, so it's just proof of concept. So it seems to be working. Right now we are
going to ask it to build another crackme, which is a GUI crackme, so say, okay,
now build another crackme, or build another app called crackme2 which is a
GUI app that does the same thing. Remember
to statically link all dependencies into the app. Right, because previously
when you built this first crackme, you found that it
can't run because it depended on many DLL files
and so it is smart enough to build a statically linked app that
includes all the dependencies. In other words a standalone EXE
so I just remind remind it and I say now if you are unsure
of of anything, ask me put the crackme 2
in the same folder as before, and then we remind it this folder just
copy this, and that is this folder okay let's go see
what it does so it has started working on what we
want what we are doing is actually called
vibe coding, and Codex and Claude Code are very
strong in vibe coding. In vibe coding, we
basically tell the AI what we want and the AI will build it for us it is now finished
building and
now doing some tests and it even tells me the correct serial is set for it is verified so
let's go there and check it out this is the one let's run it and so now it asks you to
input
serial number first you enter a wrong serial number if you click on check, and it says
wrong
serial and now we copy the correct serial number right-click, copy and paste it in here
right-click
paste and we hit check and it says congrats So it works. So you see how easy it is to use
AI to build apps for you. So again this is just proof of concept if you wanted to make a
a crackme that is very difficult to crack then just tell your Codex what you want right
you can
encrypt it obfuscate the strings hide your strings and and do encoding and encryption
and whatever. You can build a crackme which is very challenging and then practice your AI
your reverse engineering skills using AI even to crack it so with this you have unlimited
possibilities to build your own reverse engineering crackmes and practice reverse
engineering
on it. Of course, using AI to crack. Okay, so now that you have successfully built one
command-line
interface crackme and one GUI crackme, it is important to update your skills. Alright, so
now
Now we ask it, remember the skills for this skill file?
So we copy this file again, copy this file, and we ask it, would you like to update the
skill file, paste the skill file there to improve it or add new insights if any.
And then we give an example, for example, the need to statically link dependencies so
that it is capable of running standalone as a standalone EXE.
Just give it this type of prompt and let it decide whether it wants to update the skill
file So you notice the pattern that we are using here. Every time after successfully
completing a
task, we always think of the skill file. If we have no skill file we should create one,
and if we
already have a skill file we should update it if necessary to include new discoveries and
improved
ways of working so this is how you develop your AI agent ability to
solve problems. So always remember this paradigm, this way of working. Upon
successful completion of a task, create a skill file. If there's already a skill file,
update it.
And then in future, whenever you want it to perform similar task, ask it to read
the skill file for the tasks that you need. So just remember this
workflow and you should be okay. You will be able to use AI to its
maximum benefit. Okay, so now we're going to ask it and see what it does. Yes, so it
replied that it updated with the new insights and so on. And
whatever new insights that it has learned from this session, it is now entered into the
skill file. So you can see your AI agent is getting smarter every time it performs
task. So that's how useful it is so the next task you need to do is remember to copy this
out and
whatever skill files you have copy them out to another safe location outside of the
virtual
machine as usual, so that in case you were to restore your virtual machine to a previous
snapshot or an earlier snapshot, you won't lose everything. You still have your skill
files
somewhere else that you can just copy back into this machine. So that's all for this
lesson
Thank you for watching